docs/content/configuration.md, before:

---
title: Configuration
kind: operations
weight: 10
---

This page defines the format of OPA configuration files. Fields marked as
required must be specified if the parent is defined. For example, when the
configuration contains a `status` key, the `status.service` field must be
defined.

The configuration file path is specified with the `-c` or `--config-file`
command line argument:

```bash
opa run -s -c config.yaml
```

The file can be either JSON or YAML format.


#### Example

```yaml
services:
  acmecorp:
    url: https://example.com/control-plane-api/v1
    credentials:
      bearer:
        token: "bGFza2RqZmxha3NkamZsa2Fqc2Rsa2ZqYWtsc2RqZmtramRmYWxkc2tm"

labels:
  app: myapp
  region: west
  environment: production

bundles:
  authz:
    service: acmecorp
    resource: bundles/http/example/authz.tar.gz
    polling:
      min_delay_seconds: 60
      max_delay_seconds: 120
    signing:
      keyid: global_key
      scope: write

decision_logs:
  service: acmecorp
  reporting:
    min_delay_seconds: 300
    max_delay_seconds: 600

status:
  service: acmecorp

default_decision: /http/example/authz/allow

keys:
  global_key:
    algorithm: RS256
    key: <PEM_encoded_public_key>
    scope: read

caching:
  inter_query_builtin_cache:
    max_size_bytes: 10000000
```

#### Environment Variable Substitution
> Only supported with the OPA runtime (`opa run`).

Environment variables referenced with the `${...}` notation within the configuration
will be replaced with the value of the environment variable.

Example using `BASE_URL` and `BEARER_TOKEN` environment variables:
```yaml
services:
  acmecorp:
    url: ${BASE_URL}
    credentials:
      bearer:
        token: "${BEARER_TOKEN}"

discovery:
  name: example
  resource: /configuration/example/discovery
```
The environment variables `BASE_URL` and `BEARER_TOKEN` will be substituted in when the config
file is loaded by the OPA runtime.

> If the variable is undefined then an empty string (`""`) is substituted. It will __not__
raise an error.

#### CLI Runtime Overrides
> Only supported with the OPA runtime (`opa run`).

Using `opa run` there are CLI options to explicitly set config values. These will override
any values set in the config file.

There are two options to use: `--set` and `--set-file`

Both options take in a key=value format where the key is a selector for the yaml
config structure, for example: `decision_logs.reporting.min_delay_seconds=300` is equivalent
to JSON `{"decision_logs: {"reporting": {"min_delay_seconds: 300}}}`. Multiple values can be
specified with comma separators (`key1=value,key2=value2,..`). Or with additional `--set`
parameters.

Example using several different options:
```
opa run \
  --set "default_decision=/http/example/authz/allow" \
  --set "services.acmecorp.url=https://test-env/control-plane-api/v1" \
  --set "services.acmecorp.credentials.bearer.token=\${TOKEN}"
  --set "labels.app=myapp,labels.region=west"
```
This is equivalent to a YAML config file that looks like:

```yaml
services:
  acmecorp:
    url: https://test-env/control-plane-api/v1
    credentials:
      bearer:
        token: ${TOKEN}

labels:
  app: myapp
  region: west

default_decision: /http/example/authz/allow
```

The `--set-file` option is expecting a file path for the value. This allows keeping secrets in
files and loading them into the config at run time. For Example:

With a file `/var/run/secrets/bearer_token.txt` that has contents:
```
bGFza2RqZmxha3NkamZsa2Fqc2Rsa2ZqYWtsc2RqZmtramRmYWxkc2tm
```

Then using the `--set-file` flag for OPA

```bash
opa run --set-file "services.acmecorp.credentials.bearer.token=/var/run/secrets/bearer_token.txt"
```

It will read the contents of the file and set the config value with the token.

##### Override Limitations
###### Lists
If using arrays/lists in the configuration the `--set` and `--set-file` overrides will not be able to
patch sub-objects of the list. They will overwrite the entire index with the new object.

For example, a `config.yaml` file with contents:
```yaml
services:
  - name: acmecorp
    url: https://test-env/control-plane-api/v1
    credentials:
      bearer:
        token: ""
```
Used with overrides:
```
opa run \
  --config-file config.yaml
  --set-file "services[0].credentials.bearer.token=/var/run/secrets/bearer_token.txt"
```

Will result in configuration like:
```yaml
services:
  - credentials:
      bearer:
        token: bGFza2RqZmxha3NkamZsa2Fqc2Rsa2ZqYWtsc2RqZmtramRmYWxkc2tm
```
Because the entire `0` index was overwritten.

It is highly recommended to use objects/maps instead of lists for configuration for this reason.

###### Empty objects
If you need to set an empty object with the CLI overrides, for example with plugin configuration like:

```yaml
decision_logs:
  plugin: my_plugin

plugins:
  my_plugin:
    # empty
```

You can do this by setting the value with `null`. For example:
```
opa run --set "decision_logs.plugin=my_plugin" --set "plugins.my_plugin=null"
```

###### Keys with Special Characters

If you have a key which contains a special character (`.`, `=`, etc), like `opa.example.com`, and want to use
the `--set` or `--set-file` options you will need to escape the character with a backslash (`\`).

For example a config section like:

```yaml
services:
  opa.example.com:
    url: https://opa.example.com
```

Could be specified with something like:

`--set services.opa\.example\.com.url=https://opa.example.com`


Note that when using it in a shell you may need to put it in quotes or escape the `\`
character too. For example:


`--set services."opa\.example\.com".url=https://opa.example.com`

_or_

`--set services.opa\\.example\\.com.url=https://opa.example.com`

Where the end result passed into OPA still has the `\.` preserved.

#### Services

Services represent endpoints that implement one or more control plane APIs
such as the Bundle or Status APIs. OPA configuration files may contain
multiple services.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].name` | `string` | Yes | Unique name for the service. Referred to by plugins. |
| `services[_].url` | `string` | Yes | Base URL to contact the service with. |
| `services[_].headers` | `object` | No | HTTP headers to include in requests to the service. |
| `services[_].allow_insecure_tls` | `bool` | No | Allow insecure TLS. |

Each service may optionally specify a credential mechanism by which OPA will authenticate
itself to the service.

#### Bearer token

OPA will authenticate using the specified bearer token and schema; to enable bearer token
authentication, either the token or the path to the token must be specified. If the latter is provided, on each request OPA will re-read the token from the file and use that token for authentication.

The schema is optional and will default to `Bearer`
if unspecified.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].credentials.bearer.token` | `string` | Yes | Enables token-based authentication and supplies the bearer token to authenticate with. |
| `services[_].credentials.bearer.token_path` | `string` | Yes | Enables token-based authentication and supplies the path to the bearer token to authenticate with. |
| `services[_].credentials.bearer.scheme` | `string` | No | Bearer token scheme to specify. |

#### Client TLS certificate

OPA will present the specified TLS certificate to authenticate. The paths to the client certificate
and the private key are required; the passphrase for the private key is only required if the
private key is encrypted.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].credentials.client_tls.cert` | `string` | Yes | The path to the client certificate to authenticate with. |
| `services[_].credentials.client_tls.private_key` | `string` | Yes | The path to the private key of the client certificate. |
| `services[_].credentials.client_tls.private_key_passphrase` | `string` | No | The passphrase to use for the private key. |

#### AWS signature

OPA will authenticate with an [AWS4 HMAC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/sigv4-auth-using-authorization-header.html) signature. Two methods of obtaining the
necessary credentials are available; exactly one must be specified to use the AWS signature
authentication method.

If specifying `environment_credentials`, OPA will expect to find environment variables
for `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_REGION`, in accordance with the
convention used by the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html).

Please note that if you are using temporary IAM credentials (e.g. assumed IAM role credentials) you have to provide additional `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN` or `AWS_SECURITY_TOKEN` environment variable.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].credentials.s3_signing.environment_credentials` | `{}` | Yes | Enables AWS signing using environment variables to source the configuration and credentials |

If specifying `metadata_credentials`, OPA will use the AWS metadata services for [EC2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-roles-for-amazon-ec2.html)
or [ECS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/task-iam-roles.html)
to obtain the necessary credentials when running within a supported virtual machine/container.

To use the EC2 metadata service, the IAM role to use and the AWS region for the resource must both
be specified as `iam_role` and `aws_region` respectively.

To use the ECS metadata service, specify only the AWS region for the resource as `aws_region`. ECS
containers have at most one associated IAM role.

**N.B.** Providing a value for `iam_role` will cause OPA to use the EC2 metadata service even
if running inside an ECS container. This may result in unexpected problems if, for example,
there is no route to the EC2 metadata service from inside the container or if the IAM role is only available within the container and not from the hosting EC2 instance.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].credentials.s3_signing.metadata_credentials.aws_region` | `string` | Yes | The AWS region to use for the AWS signing service credential method |
| `services[_].credentials.s3_signing.metadata_credentials.iam_role` | `string` | No | The IAM role to use for the AWS signing service credential method |

> Services can be defined as an array or object. When defined as an object, the
> object keys override the `services[_].name` fields.
> For example:
```yaml
services:
  s1:
    url: https://s1/example/
  s2:
    url: https://s2/
```
Is equivalent to
```yaml
services:
  - name: s1
    url: https://s1/example/
  - name: s2
    url: https://s2/
```

### Miscellaneous

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `labels` | `object` | Yes | Set of key-value pairs that uniquely identify the OPA instance. Labels are included when OPA uploads decision logs and status information. |
| `default_decision` | `string` | No (default: `/system/main`) | Set path of default policy decision used to serve queries against OPA's base URL. |
| `default_authorization_decision` | `string` | No (default: `/system/authz/allow`) | Set path of default authorization decision for OPA's API. |
| `plugins` | `object` | No (default: `{}`) | Location for custom plugin configuration. See [Plugins](../plugins) for details. |

### Keys

Keys is a dictionary mapping the key name to the actual key and optionally the algorithm and scope.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `keys[_].key` | `string` | Yes | Actual key to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `keys[_].algorithm` | `string` | No (default: `RS256`) | Name of the signing algorithm. |
| `keys[_].scope` | `string` | No | Scope to use for bundle signature verification. |

> Note: If the `scope` is provided in a bundle's `signing` configuration (ie. `bundles[_].signing.scope`),
> it takes precedence over `keys[_].scope`.

The following signing algorithms are supported:

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `ES256` | ECDSA using P-256 and SHA-256 |
| `ES384` | ECDSA using P-384 and SHA-384 |
| `ES512` | ECDSA using P-521 and SHA-512 |
| `HS256` | HMAC using SHA-256 |
| `HS384` | HMAC using SHA-384 |
| `HS512` | HMAC using SHA-512 |
| `PS256` | RSASSA-PSS using SHA256 and MGF1-SHA256 |
| `PS384` | RSASSA-PSS using SHA384 and MGF1-SHA384 |
| `PS512` | RSASSA-PSS using SHA512 and MGF1-SHA512 |
| `RS256` | RSASSA-PKCS-v1.5 using SHA-256 |
| `RS384` | RSASSA-PKCS-v1.5 using SHA-384 |
| `RS512` | RSASSA-PKCS-v1.5 using SHA-512 |

### Caching

Caching represents the configuration of the inter-query cache that built-in functions can utilize.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `caching.inter_query_builtin_cache.max_size_bytes` | `int64` | No | Inter-query cache size limit in bytes. OPA will drop old items from the cache if this limit is exceeded. By default, no limit is set. |

### Bundles

Bundles are defined with a key that is the `name` of the bundle. This `name` is used in the status API, decision logs,
server provenance, etc.

Each bundle can be configured to verify a bundle signature using the `keyid` and `scope` fields. The `keyid` is the name of
one of the keys listed under the [keys](#keys) entry.

Signature verification fails if the `bundles[_].signing` field is configured on a bundle but no `.signatures.json` file is
included in the actual bundle gzipped tarball.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `bundles[_].resource` | `string` | No (default: `bundles/<name>`) | Resource path to use to download bundle from configured service. |
| `bundles[_].service` | `string` | Yes | Name of service to use to contact remote server. |
| `bundles[_].polling.min_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `60`) | Minimum amount of time to wait between bundle downloads. |
| `bundles[_].polling.max_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `120`) | Maximum amount of time to wait between bundle downloads. |
| `bundles[_].signing.keyid` | `string` | No | Name of the key to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `bundles[_].signing.scope` | `string` | No | Scope to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `bundles[_].signing.exclude_files` | `array` | No | Files in the bundle to exclude during verification. |


### Bundle (Deprecated)

>  Deprecated in favor of `bundles` (see above).

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `bundle.name` | `string` | Yes | Name of the bundle to download. |
| `bundle.prefix` | `string` | No (default: `bundles`) | Path prefix to use to download bundle from remote server. |
| `bundle.service` | `string` | Yes | Name of service to use to contact remote server. |
| `bundle.polling.min_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `60`) | Minimum amount of time to wait between bundle downloads. |
| `bundle.polling.max_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `120`) | Maximum amount of time to wait between bundle downloads. |

### Status

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `status.service` | `string` | Yes | Name of service to use to contact remote server. |
| `status.partition_name` | `string` | No | Path segment to include in status updates. |
| `status.console` | `boolean` | No (default: `false`) | Log the status updates locally at `info` level to the console. When enabled alongside a remote status update API the `service` must be configured, the default `service` selection will be disabled. |


### Decision Logs

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `decision_logs.service` | `string` | No | Name of the service to use to contact remote server. If no `plugin` is specified, and `console` logging is disabled, this will default to the first `service` name defined in the Services configuration. |
| `decision_logs.partition_name` | `string` | No | Path segment to include in status updates. |
| `decision_logs.reporting.buffer_size_limit_bytes` | `int64` | No | Decision log buffer size limit in bytes. OPA will drop old events from the log if this limit is exceeded. By default, no limit is set. |
| `decision_logs.reporting.upload_size_limit_bytes` | `int64` | No (default: `32768`) | Decision log upload size limit in bytes. OPA will chunk uploads to cap message body to this limit. |
| `decision_logs.reporting.min_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `300`) | Minimum amount of time to wait between uploads. |
| `decision_logs.reporting.max_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `600`) | Maximum amount of time to wait between uploads. |
| `decision_logs.mask_decision` | `string` | No (default: `system/log/mask`) | Set path of masking decision. |
| `decision_logs.plugin` | `string` | No | Use the named plugin for decision logging. If this field exists, the other configuration fields are not required. |
| `decision_logs.console` | `boolean` | No (default: `false`) | Log the decisions locally at `info` level to the console. When enabled alongside a remote decision logging API the `service` must be configured, the default `service` selection will be disabled. |

### Discovery

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `discovery.name` | `string` | Yes | Name of the discovery configuration to download. |
| `discovery.resource` | `string` | No (default: `/bundles/<name>`) | Resource path to use to download bundle from configured service. |
| `discovery.prefix` | `string` | No (default: `bundles`) | Deprecated: Use `resource` instead. Path prefix to use to download configuration from remote server. |
| `discovery.decision` | `string` | No (default: value of `discovery.name` configuration field) | Name of the OPA query that will be used to calculate the configuration |
| `discovery.polling.min_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `60`) | Minimum amount of time to wait between configuration downloads. |
| `discovery.polling.max_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `120`) | Maximum amount of time to wait between configuration downloads. |
| `discovery.signing.keyid` | `string` | No | Name of the key to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `discovery.signing.scope` | `string` | No | Scope to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `discovery.signing.exclude_files` | `array` | No | Files in the bundle to exclude during verification. |

Commit message:

plugins/rest: Add response header timeout for REST client
This commit adds a new configurable timeout to the Services
config to set the amount of time to wait for the server's
response headers. With this change, the client will no longer
wait indefinitely for the HTTP request to complete.

Signed-off-by: Ashutosh Narkar <anarkar4387@gmail.com>

docs/content/configuration.md, after:

---
title: Configuration
kind: operations
weight: 10
---

This page defines the format of OPA configuration files. Fields marked as
required must be specified if the parent is defined. For example, when the
configuration contains a `status` key, the `status.service` field must be
defined.

The configuration file path is specified with the `-c` or `--config-file`
command line argument:

```bash
opa run -s -c config.yaml
```

The file can be either JSON or YAML format.


#### Example

```yaml
services:
  acmecorp:
    url: https://example.com/control-plane-api/v1
    response_header_timeout_seconds: 5
    credentials:
      bearer:
        token: "bGFza2RqZmxha3NkamZsa2Fqc2Rsa2ZqYWtsc2RqZmtramRmYWxkc2tm"

labels:
  app: myapp
  region: west
  environment: production

bundles:
  authz:
    service: acmecorp
    resource: bundles/http/example/authz.tar.gz
    polling:
      min_delay_seconds: 60
      max_delay_seconds: 120
    signing:
      keyid: global_key
      scope: write

decision_logs:
  service: acmecorp
  reporting:
    min_delay_seconds: 300
    max_delay_seconds: 600

status:
  service: acmecorp

default_decision: /http/example/authz/allow

keys:
  global_key:
    algorithm: RS256
    key: <PEM_encoded_public_key>
    scope: read

caching:
  inter_query_builtin_cache:
    max_size_bytes: 10000000
```

#### Environment Variable Substitution
> Only supported with the OPA runtime (`opa run`).

Environment variables referenced with the `${...}` notation within the configuration
will be replaced with the value of the environment variable.

Example using `BASE_URL` and `BEARER_TOKEN` environment variables:
```yaml
services:
  acmecorp:
    url: ${BASE_URL}
    credentials:
      bearer:
        token: "${BEARER_TOKEN}"

discovery:
  name: example
  resource: /configuration/example/discovery
```
The environment variables `BASE_URL` and `BEARER_TOKEN` will be substituted in when the config
file is loaded by the OPA runtime.

> If the variable is undefined then an empty string (`""`) is substituted. It will __not__
raise an error.

#### CLI Runtime Overrides
> Only supported with the OPA runtime (`opa run`).

Using `opa run` there are CLI options to explicitly set config values. These will override
any values set in the config file.

There are two options to use: `--set` and `--set-file`

Both options take in a key=value format where the key is a selector for the yaml
config structure, for example: `decision_logs.reporting.min_delay_seconds=300` is equivalent
to JSON `{"decision_logs: {"reporting": {"min_delay_seconds: 300}}}`. Multiple values can be
specified with comma separators (`key1=value,key2=value2,..`). Or with additional `--set`
parameters.

Example using several different options:
```
opa run \
  --set "default_decision=/http/example/authz/allow" \
  --set "services.acmecorp.url=https://test-env/control-plane-api/v1" \
  --set "services.acmecorp.credentials.bearer.token=\${TOKEN}"
  --set "labels.app=myapp,labels.region=west"
```
This is equivalent to a YAML config file that looks like:

```yaml
services:
  acmecorp:
    url: https://test-env/control-plane-api/v1
    credentials:
      bearer:
        token: ${TOKEN}

labels:
  app: myapp
  region: west

default_decision: /http/example/authz/allow
```

The `--set-file` option is expecting a file path for the value. This allows keeping secrets in
files and loading them into the config at run time. For Example:

With a file `/var/run/secrets/bearer_token.txt` that has contents:
```
bGFza2RqZmxha3NkamZsa2Fqc2Rsa2ZqYWtsc2RqZmtramRmYWxkc2tm
```

Then using the `--set-file` flag for OPA

```bash
opa run --set-file "services.acmecorp.credentials.bearer.token=/var/run/secrets/bearer_token.txt"
```

It will read the contents of the file and set the config value with the token.

##### Override Limitations
###### Lists
If using arrays/lists in the configuration the `--set` and `--set-file` overrides will not be able to
patch sub-objects of the list. They will overwrite the entire index with the new object.

For example, a `config.yaml` file with contents:
```yaml
services:
  - name: acmecorp
    url: https://test-env/control-plane-api/v1
    credentials:
      bearer:
        token: ""
```
Used with overrides:
```
opa run \
  --config-file config.yaml
  --set-file "services[0].credentials.bearer.token=/var/run/secrets/bearer_token.txt"
```

Will result in configuration like:
```yaml
services:
  - credentials:
      bearer:
        token: bGFza2RqZmxha3NkamZsa2Fqc2Rsa2ZqYWtsc2RqZmtramRmYWxkc2tm
```
Because the entire `0` index was overwritten.

It is highly recommended to use objects/maps instead of lists for configuration for this reason.

###### Empty objects
If you need to set an empty object with the CLI overrides, for example with plugin configuration like:

```yaml
decision_logs:
  plugin: my_plugin

plugins:
  my_plugin:
    # empty
```

You can do this by setting the value with `null`. For example:
```
opa run --set "decision_logs.plugin=my_plugin" --set "plugins.my_plugin=null"
```

###### Keys with Special Characters

If you have a key which contains a special character (`.`, `=`, etc), like `opa.example.com`, and want to use
the `--set` or `--set-file` options you will need to escape the character with a backslash (`\`).

For example a config section like:

```yaml
services:
  opa.example.com:
    url: https://opa.example.com
```

Could be specified with something like:

`--set services.opa\.example\.com.url=https://opa.example.com`


Note that when using it in a shell you may need to put it in quotes or escape the `\`
character too. For example:


`--set services."opa\.example\.com".url=https://opa.example.com`

_or_

`--set services.opa\\.example\\.com.url=https://opa.example.com`

Where the end result passed into OPA still has the `\.` preserved.

#### Services

Services represent endpoints that implement one or more control plane APIs
such as the Bundle or Status APIs. OPA configuration files may contain
multiple services.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].name` | `string` | Yes | Unique name for the service. Referred to by plugins. |
| `services[_].url` | `string` | Yes | Base URL to contact the service with. |
| `services[_].response_header_timeout_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: 10) | Amount of time to wait for a server's response headers after fully writing the request. This time does not include the time to read the response body. |
| `services[_].headers` | `object` | No | HTTP headers to include in requests to the service. |
| `services[_].allow_insecure_tls` | `bool` | No | Allow insecure TLS. |

Each service may optionally specify a credential mechanism by which OPA will authenticate
itself to the service.

#### Bearer token

OPA will authenticate using the specified bearer token and schema; to enable bearer token
authentication, either the token or the path to the token must be specified. If the latter is provided, on each request OPA will re-read the token from the file and use that token for authentication.

The schema is optional and will default to `Bearer`
if unspecified.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].credentials.bearer.token` | `string` | Yes | Enables token-based authentication and supplies the bearer token to authenticate with. |
| `services[_].credentials.bearer.token_path` | `string` | Yes | Enables token-based authentication and supplies the path to the bearer token to authenticate with. |
| `services[_].credentials.bearer.scheme` | `string` | No | Bearer token scheme to specify. |

#### Client TLS certificate

OPA will present the specified TLS certificate to authenticate. The paths to the client certificate
and the private key are required; the passphrase for the private key is only required if the
private key is encrypted.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].credentials.client_tls.cert` | `string` | Yes | The path to the client certificate to authenticate with. |
| `services[_].credentials.client_tls.private_key` | `string` | Yes | The path to the private key of the client certificate. |
| `services[_].credentials.client_tls.private_key_passphrase` | `string` | No | The passphrase to use for the private key. |

#### AWS signature

OPA will authenticate with an [AWS4 HMAC](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/sigv4-auth-using-authorization-header.html) signature. Two methods of obtaining the
necessary credentials are available; exactly one must be specified to use the AWS signature
authentication method.

If specifying `environment_credentials`, OPA will expect to find environment variables
for `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `AWS_REGION`, in accordance with the
convention used by the [AWS CLI](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-configure-envvars.html).

Please note that if you are using temporary IAM credentials (e.g. assumed IAM role credentials) you have to provide additional `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN` or `AWS_SECURITY_TOKEN` environment variable.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].credentials.s3_signing.environment_credentials` | `{}` | Yes | Enables AWS signing using environment variables to source the configuration and credentials |

If specifying `metadata_credentials`, OPA will use the AWS metadata services for [EC2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/iam-roles-for-amazon-ec2.html)
or [ECS](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/userguide/task-iam-roles.html)
to obtain the necessary credentials when running within a supported virtual machine/container.

To use the EC2 metadata service, the IAM role to use and the AWS region for the resource must both
be specified as `iam_role` and `aws_region` respectively.

To use the ECS metadata service, specify only the AWS region for the resource as `aws_region`. ECS
containers have at most one associated IAM role.

**N.B.** Providing a value for `iam_role` will cause OPA to use the EC2 metadata service even
if running inside an ECS container. This may result in unexpected problems if, for example,
there is no route to the EC2 metadata service from inside the container or if the IAM role is only available within the container and not from the hosting EC2 instance.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `services[_].credentials.s3_signing.metadata_credentials.aws_region` | `string` | Yes | The AWS region to use for the AWS signing service credential method |
| `services[_].credentials.s3_signing.metadata_credentials.iam_role` | `string` | No | The IAM role to use for the AWS signing service credential method |

> Services can be defined as an array or object. When defined as an object, the
> object keys override the `services[_].name` fields.
> For example:
```yaml
services:
  s1:
    url: https://s1/example/
  s2:
    url: https://s2/
```
Is equivalent to
```yaml
services:
  - name: s1
    url: https://s1/example/
  - name: s2
    url: https://s2/
```

### Miscellaneous

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `labels` | `object` | Yes | Set of key-value pairs that uniquely identify the OPA instance. Labels are included when OPA uploads decision logs and status information. |
| `default_decision` | `string` | No (default: `/system/main`) | Set path of default policy decision used to serve queries against OPA's base URL. |
| `default_authorization_decision` | `string` | No (default: `/system/authz/allow`) | Set path of default authorization decision for OPA's API. |
| `plugins` | `object` | No (default: `{}`) | Location for custom plugin configuration. See [Plugins](../plugins) for details. |

### Keys

Keys is a dictionary mapping the key name to the actual key and optionally the algorithm and scope.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `keys[_].key` | `string` | Yes | Actual key to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `keys[_].algorithm` | `string` | No (default: `RS256`) | Name of the signing algorithm. |
| `keys[_].scope` | `string` | No | Scope to use for bundle signature verification. |

> Note: If the `scope` is provided in a bundle's `signing` configuration (ie. `bundles[_].signing.scope`),
> it takes precedence over `keys[_].scope`.

The following signing algorithms are supported:

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `ES256` | ECDSA using P-256 and SHA-256 |
| `ES384` | ECDSA using P-384 and SHA-384 |
| `ES512` | ECDSA using P-521 and SHA-512 |
| `HS256` | HMAC using SHA-256 |
| `HS384` | HMAC using SHA-384 |
| `HS512` | HMAC using SHA-512 |
| `PS256` | RSASSA-PSS using SHA256 and MGF1-SHA256 |
| `PS384` | RSASSA-PSS using SHA384 and MGF1-SHA384 |
| `PS512` | RSASSA-PSS using SHA512 and MGF1-SHA512 |
| `RS256` | RSASSA-PKCS-v1.5 using SHA-256 |
| `RS384` | RSASSA-PKCS-v1.5 using SHA-384 |
| `RS512` | RSASSA-PKCS-v1.5 using SHA-512 |

### Caching

Caching represents the configuration of the inter-query cache that built-in functions can utilize.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `caching.inter_query_builtin_cache.max_size_bytes` | `int64` | No | Inter-query cache size limit in bytes. OPA will drop old items from the cache if this limit is exceeded. By default, no limit is set. |

### Bundles

Bundles are defined with a key that is the `name` of the bundle. This `name` is used in the status API, decision logs,
server provenance, etc.

Each bundle can be configured to verify a bundle signature using the `keyid` and `scope` fields. The `keyid` is the name of
one of the keys listed under the [keys](#keys) entry.

Signature verification fails if the `bundles[_].signing` field is configured on a bundle but no `.signatures.json` file is
included in the actual bundle gzipped tarball.

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `bundles[_].resource` | `string` | No (default: `bundles/<name>`) | Resource path to use to download bundle from configured service. |
| `bundles[_].service` | `string` | Yes | Name of service to use to contact remote server. |
| `bundles[_].polling.min_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `60`) | Minimum amount of time to wait between bundle downloads. |
| `bundles[_].polling.max_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `120`) | Maximum amount of time to wait between bundle downloads. |
| `bundles[_].signing.keyid` | `string` | No | Name of the key to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `bundles[_].signing.scope` | `string` | No | Scope to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `bundles[_].signing.exclude_files` | `array` | No | Files in the bundle to exclude during verification. |


### Bundle (Deprecated)

>  Deprecated in favor of `bundles` (see above).

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `bundle.name` | `string` | Yes | Name of the bundle to download. |
| `bundle.prefix` | `string` | No (default: `bundles`) | Path prefix to use to download bundle from remote server. |
| `bundle.service` | `string` | Yes | Name of service to use to contact remote server. |
| `bundle.polling.min_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `60`) | Minimum amount of time to wait between bundle downloads. |
| `bundle.polling.max_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `120`) | Maximum amount of time to wait between bundle downloads. |

### Status

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `status.service` | `string` | Yes | Name of service to use to contact remote server. |
| `status.partition_name` | `string` | No | Path segment to include in status updates. |
| `status.console` | `boolean` | No (default: `false`) | Log the status updates locally at `info` level to the console. When enabled alongside a remote status update API the `service` must be configured, the default `service` selection will be disabled. |


### Decision Logs

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `decision_logs.service` | `string` | No | Name of the service to use to contact remote server. If no `plugin` is specified, and `console` logging is disabled, this will default to the first `service` name defined in the Services configuration. |
| `decision_logs.partition_name` | `string` | No | Path segment to include in status updates. |
| `decision_logs.reporting.buffer_size_limit_bytes` | `int64` | No | Decision log buffer size limit in bytes. OPA will drop old events from the log if this limit is exceeded. By default, no limit is set. |
| `decision_logs.reporting.upload_size_limit_bytes` | `int64` | No (default: `32768`) | Decision log upload size limit in bytes. OPA will chunk uploads to cap message body to this limit. |
| `decision_logs.reporting.min_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `300`) | Minimum amount of time to wait between uploads. |
| `decision_logs.reporting.max_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `600`) | Maximum amount of time to wait between uploads. |
| `decision_logs.mask_decision` | `string` | No (default: `system/log/mask`) | Set path of masking decision. |
| `decision_logs.plugin` | `string` | No | Use the named plugin for decision logging. If this field exists, the other configuration fields are not required. |
| `decision_logs.console` | `boolean` | No (default: `false`) | Log the decisions locally at `info` level to the console. When enabled alongside a remote decision logging API the `service` must be configured, the default `service` selection will be disabled. |

### Discovery

| Field | Type | Required | Description |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `discovery.name` | `string` | Yes | Name of the discovery configuration to download. |
| `discovery.resource` | `string` | No (default: `/bundles/<name>`) | Resource path to use to download bundle from configured service. |
| `discovery.prefix` | `string` | No (default: `bundles`) | Deprecated: Use `resource` instead. Path prefix to use to download configuration from remote server. |
| `discovery.decision` | `string` | No (default: value of `discovery.name` configuration field) | Name of the OPA query that will be used to calculate the configuration |
| `discovery.polling.min_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `60`) | Minimum amount of time to wait between configuration downloads. |
| `discovery.polling.max_delay_seconds` | `int64` | No (default: `120`) | Maximum amount of time to wait between configuration downloads. |
| `discovery.signing.keyid` | `string` | No | Name of the key to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `discovery.signing.scope` | `string` | No | Scope to use for bundle signature verification. |
| `discovery.signing.exclude_files` | `array` | No | Files in the bundle to exclude during verification. |
