docs/content/envoy-tutorial-istio.md, before:

---
title: "Tutorial: Istio"
kind: envoy
weight: 11
---

[Istio](https://istio.io/latest/) is an open source service mesh for managing the different microservices that make
up a cloud-native application. Istio provides a mechanism to customize the Envoy configuration generated by Istio Pilot
using [EnvoyFilter](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/envoy-filter/).

This tutorial shows how Istio's EnvoyFilter can be configured to include Envoy's [External Authorization
filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/security/ext_authz_filter.html) to delegate
authorization decisions to OPA.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial requires Kubernetes 1.20 or later. To run the tutorial locally ensure you start a cluster with Kubernetes
version 1.20+, we recommend using [minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/minikube) or
[KIND](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/).

The tutorial also requires Istio v1.8.0 or later. It assumes you have Istio deployed on top of Kubernetes.
See Istio's [Quick Start](https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/kubernetes/) page to get started.

## Steps

### 1. Install OPA-Envoy

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-policy-agent/opa-envoy-plugin/main/examples/istio/quick_start.yaml
```

The `quick_start.yaml` manifest defines the following resources:

* External Authorization Filter to direct authorization checks to the OPA-Envoy sidecar. See `kubectl -n istio-system get envoyfilter ext-authz` for details.

* Kubernetes namespace (`opa-istio`) for OPA-Envoy control plane components.

* Kubernetes admission controller in the `opa-istio` namespace that automatically injects the OPA-Envoy sidecar into pods in namespaces labelled with `opa-istio-injection=enabled`.

* OPA configuration file and an OPA policy into ConfigMaps in the namespace where the app will be deployed, e.g., `default`.
  The following is the example OPA policy:
        
    * alice is granted a **guest** role and can perform a `GET` request to `/productpage`.
    * bob is granted an **admin** role and can perform a `GET` to `/productpage` and `/api/v1/products`.

    ```live:example:module:openable
    package istio.authz
  
    import input.attributes.request.http as http_request
    import input.parsed_path
    
    default allow = false
    
    allow {
        parsed_path[0] == "health"
        http_request.method == "GET"
    }
    
    allow {
        roles_for_user[r]
        required_roles[r]
    }
    
    roles_for_user[r] {
        r := user_roles[user_name][_]
    }
    
    required_roles[r] {
        perm := role_perms[r][_]
        perm.method == http_request.method
        perm.path == http_request.path
    }
    
    user_name = parsed {
        [_, encoded] := split(http_request.headers.authorization, " ")
        [parsed, _] := split(base64url.decode(encoded), ":")
    }
    
    user_roles := {
        "alice": ["guest"],
        "bob": ["admin"]
    }
    
    role_perms := {
        "guest": [
            {"method": "GET",  "path": "/productpage"},
        ],
        "admin": [
            {"method": "GET",  "path": "/productpage"},
            {"method": "GET",  "path": "/api/v1/products"},
        ],
    }
    ```

    OPA is configured to query for the `data.istio.authz.allow`
    decision. If the response is `true` the operation is allowed, otherwise the
    operation is denied. Sample input received by OPA is shown below:

    ```live:example:query:hidden
    data.istio.authz.allow
    ```
  
    ```live:example:input
    {
        "attributes": {
            "request": {
                "http": {
                    "method": "GET",
                    "path": "/productpage",
                    "headers": {
                        "authorization": "Basic YWxpY2U6cGFzc3dvcmQ="
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    With the input value above, the answer is:
    
    ```live:example:output
    ```

    An example of the complete input received by OPA can be seen [here](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/opa-envoy-plugin/tree/main/examples/istio#example-input).

    > In typical deployments the policy would either be built into the OPA container
    > image or it would fetched dynamically via the [Bundle
    > API](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/bundles/). ConfigMaps are
    > used in this tutorial for test purposes.
  
### 2. Enable automatic injection of the Istio Proxy and OPA-Envoy sidecars in the namespace where the app will be deployed, e.g., `default`

```bash
kubectl label namespace default opa-istio-injection="enabled"
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection="enabled"
```

### 3. Deploy the BookInfo application and make it accessible outside the cluster

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml
```

### 4. Set the `GATEWAY_URL` environment variable in your shell to the public IP/port of the Istio Ingress gateway

**minikube**:

```bash
export INGRESS_PORT=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.spec.ports[?(@.name=="http2")].nodePort}')
export INGRESS_HOST=$(minikube ip)
export GATEWAY_URL=$INGRESS_HOST:$INGRESS_PORT
echo $GATEWAY_URL
```

**minikube (example)**:

```
192.168.99.100:31380
```

For other platforms see the [Istio documentation on determining ingress IP and ports.](https://istio.io/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports)


### 5. Exercise the OPA policy

Check that **alice** can access `/productpage` **BUT NOT** `/api/v1/products`.

```bash
curl --user alice:password -i http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
curl --user alice:password -i http://$GATEWAY_URL/api/v1/products
```

Check that **bob** can access `/productpage` **AND** `/api/v1/products`.

```bash
curl --user bob:password -i http://$GATEWAY_URL/productpage
curl --user bob:password -i http://$GATEWAY_URL/api/v1/products
```

## Wrap Up

Congratulations for finishing the tutorial !

This tutorial showed how Istio's [EnvoyFilter](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/envoy-filter/)
can be configured to use OPA as an External authorization service.

This tutorial also showed a sample OPA policy that returns a `boolean` decision
to indicate whether a request should be allowed or not.

More details about the tutorial can be seen
[here](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/opa-envoy-plugin/tree/main/examples/istio).

Commit message:

docs: Update Istio tutorial to expose application to outside traffic (#4384)
Signed-off-by: Ashutosh Narkar <anarkar4387@gmail.com>

docs/content/envoy-tutorial-istio.md, after:

---
title: "Tutorial: Istio"
kind: envoy
weight: 11
---

[Istio](https://istio.io/latest/) is an open source service mesh for managing the different microservices that make
up a cloud-native application. Istio provides a mechanism to customize the Envoy configuration generated by Istio Pilot
using [EnvoyFilter](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/envoy-filter/).

This tutorial shows how Istio's EnvoyFilter can be configured to include Envoy's [External Authorization
filter](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/intro/arch_overview/security/ext_authz_filter.html) to delegate
authorization decisions to OPA.

## Prerequisites

This tutorial requires Kubernetes 1.20 or later. To run the tutorial locally ensure you start a cluster with Kubernetes
version 1.20+, we recommend using [minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/getting-started-guides/minikube) or
[KIND](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/).

The tutorial also requires Istio v1.8.0 or later. It assumes you have Istio deployed on top of Kubernetes.
See Istio's [Quick Start](https://istio.io/docs/setup/kubernetes/install/kubernetes/) page to get started.

## Steps

### 1. Install OPA-Envoy

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/open-policy-agent/opa-envoy-plugin/main/examples/istio/quick_start.yaml
```

The `quick_start.yaml` manifest defines the following resources:

* External Authorization Filter to direct authorization checks to the OPA-Envoy sidecar. See `kubectl -n istio-system get envoyfilter ext-authz` for details.

* Kubernetes namespace (`opa-istio`) for OPA-Envoy control plane components.

* Kubernetes admission controller in the `opa-istio` namespace that automatically injects the OPA-Envoy sidecar into pods in namespaces labelled with `opa-istio-injection=enabled`.

* OPA configuration file and an OPA policy into ConfigMaps in the namespace where the app will be deployed, e.g., `default`.
  The following is the example OPA policy:
        
    * alice is granted a **guest** role and can perform a `GET` request to `/productpage`.
    * bob is granted an **admin** role and can perform a `GET` to `/productpage` and `/api/v1/products`.

    ```live:example:module:openable
    package istio.authz
  
    import input.attributes.request.http as http_request
    import input.parsed_path
    
    default allow = false
    
    allow {
        parsed_path[0] == "health"
        http_request.method == "GET"
    }
    
    allow {
        roles_for_user[r]
        required_roles[r]
    }
    
    roles_for_user[r] {
        r := user_roles[user_name][_]
    }
    
    required_roles[r] {
        perm := role_perms[r][_]
        perm.method == http_request.method
        perm.path == http_request.path
    }
    
    user_name = parsed {
        [_, encoded] := split(http_request.headers.authorization, " ")
        [parsed, _] := split(base64url.decode(encoded), ":")
    }
    
    user_roles := {
        "alice": ["guest"],
        "bob": ["admin"]
    }
    
    role_perms := {
        "guest": [
            {"method": "GET",  "path": "/productpage"},
        ],
        "admin": [
            {"method": "GET",  "path": "/productpage"},
            {"method": "GET",  "path": "/api/v1/products"},
        ],
    }
    ```

    OPA is configured to query for the `data.istio.authz.allow`
    decision. If the response is `true` the operation is allowed, otherwise the
    operation is denied. Sample input received by OPA is shown below:

    ```live:example:query:hidden
    data.istio.authz.allow
    ```
  
    ```live:example:input
    {
        "attributes": {
            "request": {
                "http": {
                    "method": "GET",
                    "path": "/productpage",
                    "headers": {
                        "authorization": "Basic YWxpY2U6cGFzc3dvcmQ="
                    }
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

    With the input value above, the answer is:
    
    ```live:example:output
    ```

    An example of the complete input received by OPA can be seen [here](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/opa-envoy-plugin/tree/main/examples/istio#example-input).

    > In typical deployments the policy would either be built into the OPA container
    > image or it would fetched dynamically via the [Bundle
    > API](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/bundles/). ConfigMaps are
    > used in this tutorial for test purposes.
  
### 2. Enable automatic injection of the Istio Proxy and OPA-Envoy sidecars in the namespace where the app will be deployed, e.g., `default`

```bash
kubectl label namespace default opa-istio-injection="enabled"
kubectl label namespace default istio-injection="enabled"
```

### 3. Deploy the BookInfo application and make it accessible outside the cluster

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/platform/kube/bookinfo.yaml
```

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/istio/istio/master/samples/bookinfo/networking/bookinfo-gateway.yaml
```

### 4. Set the `SERVICE_HOST` environment variable in your shell to the public IP/port of the Istio Ingress gateway

Run this command in a new terminal window to start a Minikube tunnel that sends traffic to your Istio Ingress Gateway:

```
minikube tunnel
```

Check that the Service shows an `EXTERNAL-IP`:

```bash
kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway

NAME                   TYPE           CLUSTER-IP     EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                                                                      AGE
istio-ingressgateway   LoadBalancer   10.98.42.178   127.0.0.1     15021:32290/TCP,80:30283/TCP,443:32497/TCP,31400:30216/TCP,15443:30690/TCP   5s
```

**minikube:**

```bash
export SERVICE_HOST=$(kubectl -n istio-system get service istio-ingressgateway -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[0].ip}')
```

For other platforms see the [Istio documentation on determining ingress IP and ports.](https://istio.io/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/#determining-the-ingress-ip-and-ports)


### 5. Exercise the OPA policy

Check that **alice** can access `/productpage` **BUT NOT** `/api/v1/products`.

```bash
curl --user alice:password -i http://$SERVICE_HOST/productpage
curl --user alice:password -i http://$SERVICE_HOST/api/v1/products
```

Check that **bob** can access `/productpage` **AND** `/api/v1/products`.

```bash
curl --user bob:password -i http://$SERVICE_HOST/productpage
curl --user bob:password -i http://$SERVICE_HOST/api/v1/products
```

## Wrap Up

Congratulations for finishing the tutorial !

This tutorial showed how Istio's [EnvoyFilter](https://istio.io/latest/docs/reference/config/networking/envoy-filter/)
can be configured to use OPA as an External authorization service.

This tutorial also showed a sample OPA policy that returns a `boolean` decision
to indicate whether a request should be allowed or not.

More details about the tutorial can be seen
[here](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/opa-envoy-plugin/tree/main/examples/istio).
