docs/content/monitoring.md, before:

---
title: Monitoring
kind: operations
weight: 30
restrictedtoc: true
---

## Prometheus

OPA exposes an HTTP endpoint that can be used to collect performance metrics
for all API calls. The Prometheus endpoint is enabled by default when you run
OPA as a server.

You can enable metric collection from OPA with the following `prometheus.yml` config:

```yaml
global:
  scrape_interval: 15s
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: "opa"
    metrics_path: "/metrics"
    static_configs:
    - targets:
      - "localhost:8181"
```

The Prometheus endpoint exports Go runtime metrics as well as HTTP request latency metrics for all handlers (e.g., `v1/data`).

| Metric name | Metric type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| go_gc_duration_seconds | summary | A summary of the GC invocation durations. |
| go_goroutines | gauge | Number of goroutines that currently exist. |
| go_info | gauge | Information about the Go environment. |
| go_memstats_alloc_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes allocated and still in use. |
| go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total | counter | Total number of bytes allocated, even if freed. |
| go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used by the profiling bucket hash table. |
| go_memstats_frees_total | counter | Total number of frees. |
| go_memstats_gc_cpu_fraction | gauge | The fraction of this program's available CPU time used by the GC since the program started. |
| go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used for garbage collection system metadata. |
| go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes allocated and still in use. |
| go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes waiting to be used. |
| go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes that are in use. |
| go_memstats_heap_objects | gauge | Number of allocated objects. |
| go_memstats_heap_released_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes released to OS. |
| go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes obtained from system. |
| go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds | gauge | Number of seconds since 1970 of last garbage collection. |
| go_memstats_lookups_total | counter | Total number of pointer lookups. |
| go_memstats_mallocs_total | counter | Total number of mallocs. |
| go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes in use by mcache structures. |
| go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used for mcache structures obtained from system. |
| go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes in use by mspan structures. |
| go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used for mspan structures obtained from system. |
| go_memstats_next_gc_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes when next garbage collection will take place. |
| go_memstats_other_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used for other system allocations. |
| go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes in use by the stack allocator. |
| go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes obtained from system for stack allocator. |
| go_memstats_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes obtained from system. |
| go_threads | gauge | Number of OS threads created. |
| http_request_duration_seconds | histogram | A histogram of duration for requests. |

## Health Checks

OPA exposes a `/health` API endpoint that can be used to perform health checks.
See [Health API](../rest-api#health-api) for details.

## Status API

OPA provides a plugin which can push status to a remote service.
See [Status API](../management-status) for details.

Commit message:

OpenTelemetry: docs, config tweaks, no empty decision ID attributes (#4146)
1. I think an extra section on OT is warranted, even if it's brief.

2. The config now expects "type" to be set to "grpc" to enable the current
   feature set. More options may follow in the future.

This is meant to future-proof the config. Future values might include
"http", where the address, TLS and sampling related settings would be
reused; and "global", where the setup would use whatever global trace
provider was configured with otel. The latter use case would be for
embedding OPA via the SDK.

3. Decision ID attributes are only added to spans if decision logging is enabled.

Fixes #4128.

Signed-off-by: Stephan Renatus <stephan.renatus@gmail.com>

docs/content/monitoring.md, after:

---
title: Monitoring
kind: operations
weight: 30
restrictedtoc: true
---

## OpenTelemetry

When run as a server and configured accordingly, OPA will emit spans to an
[OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) collector via gRPC.

Each [REST API](../rest-api/) request sent to the server will start a span.
If processing the request involves policy evaluation, and that in turn uses
[`http.send`](../policy-reference/#http), those HTTP clients will emit descendant spans.

Furthermore, spans exported for policy evaluation requests will contain an
attribute `opa.decision_id` of the evaluation's decision ID _if_ the server
has decision logging enabled.

See [the configuration documentation](../configuration/#distributed-tracing)
for all OpenTelemetry-related configurables.

## Prometheus

OPA exposes an HTTP endpoint that can be used to collect performance metrics
for all API calls. The Prometheus endpoint is enabled by default when you run
OPA as a server.

You can enable metric collection from OPA with the following `prometheus.yml` config:

```yaml
global:
  scrape_interval: 15s
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: "opa"
    metrics_path: "/metrics"
    static_configs:
    - targets:
      - "localhost:8181"
```

The Prometheus endpoint exports Go runtime metrics as well as HTTP request latency metrics for all handlers (e.g., `v1/data`).

| Metric name | Metric type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| go_gc_duration_seconds | summary | A summary of the GC invocation durations. |
| go_goroutines | gauge | Number of goroutines that currently exist. |
| go_info | gauge | Information about the Go environment. |
| go_memstats_alloc_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes allocated and still in use. |
| go_memstats_alloc_bytes_total | counter | Total number of bytes allocated, even if freed. |
| go_memstats_buck_hash_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used by the profiling bucket hash table. |
| go_memstats_frees_total | counter | Total number of frees. |
| go_memstats_gc_cpu_fraction | gauge | The fraction of this program's available CPU time used by the GC since the program started. |
| go_memstats_gc_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used for garbage collection system metadata. |
| go_memstats_heap_alloc_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes allocated and still in use. |
| go_memstats_heap_idle_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes waiting to be used. |
| go_memstats_heap_inuse_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes that are in use. |
| go_memstats_heap_objects | gauge | Number of allocated objects. |
| go_memstats_heap_released_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes released to OS. |
| go_memstats_heap_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes obtained from system. |
| go_memstats_last_gc_time_seconds | gauge | Number of seconds since 1970 of last garbage collection. |
| go_memstats_lookups_total | counter | Total number of pointer lookups. |
| go_memstats_mallocs_total | counter | Total number of mallocs. |
| go_memstats_mcache_inuse_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes in use by mcache structures. |
| go_memstats_mcache_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used for mcache structures obtained from system. |
| go_memstats_mspan_inuse_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes in use by mspan structures. |
| go_memstats_mspan_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used for mspan structures obtained from system. |
| go_memstats_next_gc_bytes | gauge | Number of heap bytes when next garbage collection will take place. |
| go_memstats_other_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes used for other system allocations. |
| go_memstats_stack_inuse_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes in use by the stack allocator. |
| go_memstats_stack_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes obtained from system for stack allocator. |
| go_memstats_sys_bytes | gauge | Number of bytes obtained from system. |
| go_threads | gauge | Number of OS threads created. |
| http_request_duration_seconds | histogram | A histogram of duration for requests. |

## Health Checks

OPA exposes a `/health` API endpoint that can be used to perform health checks.
See [Health API](../rest-api#health-api) for details.

## Status API

OPA provides a plugin which can push status to a remote service.
See [Status API](../management-status) for details.
